# Exercise 01: Economic Base Analysis

**Due: 2019-05-07 5:00PM**

Note: you will have to answer the questions on ilearn. Those answers will be graded and your source code will be checked to ensure your answers are based on your code. Full credit requires the following: 

1. A markdown file that has the answers to the questions below. Hand in the file `ex01_solutions.md` .
2. Your python script that generates the values supporting your answer. Hand in one script named `ex01.py` .
3. Answering the questions on ilearn.



## Data 

For this exercise you will use the Employment data in the file `ex01.csv`. The original source for this data is the US Bureau of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Information System. The data has been pre-cleaned by the instructor, with 0 values reported for observations that data is undisclosed.

The data consists of 2017 employment for 60 economies, beginning with the United States (`c_00000`), California (`c_06000`), and the 58 California counties. The column labels for each county take the form of `c_xxxxx` where `xxxxx` is the [FIPS](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/popest/geographies/reference-files.html) code for the county.


## Location Quotients

1. For Riverside county, calculate the location quotients for each of the four aggregation profiles we used in class.


2. What industries could be considered as export base according to the `d4` aggregation profile?


3. Estimate basic employment for Riverside county using the `d4` aggregation profile.


4. What is the economic base multiplier for Riverside county using the `d4` aggregation profile?


5. Estimate the economic base multiplier for each level of aggregation in Riverside County. Comment on how the multiplier changes across aggregation schemes. What might explain these changes?


## Spatial Analysis of Economic Base Estimates in California

1. For each of the 58 counties estimate location quotients at the `d4` aggregation level.

2. What county and industry has the largest value for its location quotient in 2017?

3. For each of the 4 levels of aggregation, estimate the economic base multiplier for each county.

4. Provide a ranking of the counties based on the estimates of the multipliers for each aggregation level. Comment on any changes in the rankings.

