# Exercise 03: Mapping for Regional Analysis

**Due: 2019-06-11 5:00PM**

Note: you will have to answer the questions on ilearn. Those answers will be graded and your source code will be checked to ensure your answers are based on your code. Full credit requires the following: 

1. A pdf version of your jupyter notebook that includes your maps and all source code.
3. Answering the questions on ilearn.


## Learning Outcomes

 1. Students will be able to map publicly available employment data for US Regions using spatial libraries in Python.
 2. Students will be able to derive new variables that summarize regional economic structure and growth, and to develop maps for these new variables.
 3. Students will be able to design effective maps through selection of appropriate classification schemes, color ramps, and variable definitions.

## Data 

For this exercise you will use the data you cleaned in the [previous exercise](https://github.com/sjsrey/pbpl204s19/blob/master/exercises/02/ex02.md). Recall that the cleaning was necessary to impute values for industry employment in counties where official values were suppressed.

You will use this data to complete the following tasks.

## Mapping County Level Economic Growth

1. For each county, calculate annual growth rates beginning in 2010 through 2017.
2. For each county, calculate the average growth rate.
3. Create a choropleth map that portrays the spatial distribution of the average county growth rates.
4. Explain your choices for the design of your choropleth map with regard to the choice of classification scheme, color scheme, and any other design elements.

## Mapping County Level Economic Diversification
1. For each county, calculate the Herfindahl–Hirschman (HH) index annually for 2010 through 2017.
2. For each county, calculate the average HH index over 2010 through 2017.
3. Create a choropleth map that portrays the spatial distribution of the average HH index.
4. Explain your choices for the design of your choropleth map with regard to the choice of classification scheme, color scheme, and any other design elements.


## Mapping County Level Economic Growth and Diversification

1. Create a new variable, HG that takes on a value of 1 if a county's average annual economic growth rate was above the state average over the 2010-2017 period, 0 otherwise.
1. Create a new variable, HD that takes on a value of 1 if a county's average annual economic diversification index  was above the state average over the 2010-2017 period, 0 otherwise.
2. Create a new variable GD that encodes the four possible combinations of the two variables you just constructed.
3. Create a choropleth map that portrays the spatial distribution of the variable GD.
4. Explain your choices for the design of your choropleth map with regard to the choice of classification scheme, color scheme, and any other design elements.
 
## Mapping Regional Economic Growth and Diversification

Using the *regional planning units* from the [California Employment Development Department](https://www.labormarketinfo.edd.ca.gov/geography/supply-and-demand-tool.html) and defined [here]( https://www.edd.ca.gov/jobs_and_training/pubs/wsd15-17att1.docx), answer the following questions: 

1. How many regions does the EDD define?
2. Which region has the most counties?
2. Which region has the most employment in 2017?
2. What region had the highest level of economic diversification in 2017?



