# Exercise 02: Regional Diversification and Growth

**Due: 2019-05-28 5:00PM**

Note: you will have to answer the questions on ilearn. Those answers will be graded and your source code will be checked to ensure your answers are based on your code. Full credit requires the following: 

1. A markdown file that has the answers to the questions below. Hand in the file `ex02_solutions.md` .
2. Your python script that generates the values supporting your answer. Hand in one script named `ex02.py` .
3. Answering the questions on ilearn.


## Data 

For this exercise you will use the Employment data downloaded from the US Bureau of Economic Analysis, Regional Economic Information System. Unlike exercise 01 where the the data had been pre-cleaned by the instructor, with 0 values reported for observations that data is undisclosed, here the data is as originally reported.

There are two files:

- CAEMP25N_CA_2001_2017.csv
- CAEMP25N_US_2001_2017.csv

These have employment data from 2001 through 2017 for California, California Counties, and the US (as well as all states)

Along with two meta-data files with details on the data files:

- CAEMP25N__definition.xml
- CAEMP25N__Footnotes.html

You will use this data to complete the following tasks.


## Estimating Undisclosed Employment Values for California Counties

1. Prepare a table that reports the number of disclosure problems for each county and year. (Counties on the rows, columns on the years).
1. Use the procedures introduced in class to estimate the employment values in cases where BEA indicates a "(D)".


## Examining the Diversification versus Growth Question


Using your cleaned data from the previous tasks, you will carry out an analysis of the question examined in

- [Pallares, F.J. and R.V. Adkisson (2017) "The impact of industrial diversification on employment growth in the 50 U.S. States: 2000-2013." Economic Development Quarterly 31, 4: 275-284.](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/0891242417731599#articleCitationDownloadContainer)


Rather than using states as the units of measurement, you will use the counties in California to examine the relationship between industrial diversification and growth over the 2001-2017 period.


1. Use the methodology of Pallares and Adkisson to identify national industries that are "volatile" and "non-volatile".
1. Calculate the annual total employment growth for each county.
1. For each year and county, calculate an industrial diversification index.
1. For each year and county, calculate the share of total employment in VOL and NONVOL sectors.
1. For each year and county, calculate the location quotient for VOL and NONVOL.
1. Estimate regression for model A, where the dependent variable is employment growth. The explanatory variables should be the temporal lag of VOL and NONVOL shares.
1. Estimate regression for model A, where the dependent variable is employment growth. The explanatory variables should be the temporal lag of the location quotient VOL and NONVOL employment.

Provide an interpretation of your results, be sure to discuss how your findings relate to those in the state level study.


